Project management involves planning,
execution, and monitoring projects.
Software developers use project management
to engineer new product features.
Construction firms use it
throughout the construction of new buildings.
And marketing teams need it to launch new campaigns.
In this video, you'll learn exactly
what project management entails
along with its three constraints.
A project is a temporary endeavor
designed to create a specific product, service, or outcome.
You can break this definition down
into three key characteristics that define a project.
First, a project is goal-oriented.
It has a specific objective or outcome
it's designed to achieve.
Second, a project is temporary.
It has a finite start and end date.
And third, a project is unique.
A project has its own unique goals.
It's not an ongoing or regular business operation.
Now imagine that your boss gives you a new project.
She wants you to create
a new downloadable ebook for your customers.
Where would you start?
What steps are involved?
And do you need the support of designers,
writers, or other resources?
These are all questions that relate to project management.
Project management is the initiation,
planning, execution, monitoring, and closure of a project.
Project managers take ownership of a project
and are accountable for its success.
They provide project leadership and direction,
manager resources, and break down
a big objective into small, actionable tasks.
Not only is a project manager expected to lead their team
to deliver a project successfully,
but they also must work within three constraints.
The three constraints of project management
are time, cost, and scope.
Time refers to the specific duration of time
allotted to complete the project.
Cost is the budget allocated for a project.
And a project scope refers to the tasks,
features, or deliverables involved in a project.
Time, cost, and scope are interdependent.
Changing one constraint will affect others.
If you reduce the cost or budget of the project,
then you might increase the scope.
If you inflate the scope of a project,
then the project may demand more time.
As you can see, effective project management
is critical in every business.
Projects are important for creating new initiatives
that solve business problems
or take advantage of business opportunities.
And project management is important
for delivering on project goals.